{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Italic;
\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-BoldItalic;}

\psz1\paperw12240\paperh15840
\margl1797\margr1797\margt1797\margb1247
\deftab720

{\stylesheet{\f0 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc\snext2\sbasedon0 SCENE HEADING;}
{\s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql\snext0\sbasedon0 ACTION;}
{\s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql\snext5\sbasedon0 CHARACTER;}
{\s4\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\li2778\ri2778\ql\snext5\sbasedon0 PARENTHETICAL;}
{\s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql\snext2\sbasedon0 DIALOGUE;}
{\s6\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\li5556\ri694\qr\snext1\sbasedon0 TRANSITION;}
{\s7\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql\snext2\sbasedon0 SHOT;}
}

\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul CAST OF CHARACTERS\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Bea Dela Cruz             -Miko's wife; writer; Early 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Faye Dela Cruz            -Forgetful, Miko's younger sister\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           Early 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Miko Dela Cruz                     -Detective, good person,  \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           forgetful         Late 20s                       \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Michael                   -Bad Detective, superiority\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           complex, wears suits, armbands, \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           childish\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                            Early 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Angelo Dela Cruz          -Investigative Journalist, \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           forgetful, pessimistic, wears \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           long sleeves       Late 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Darlene Zalameda          -Miko's ex    Early 30s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Karl Simon                -Miko's bestfriend, badass, wears \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                           black, armbands. Late 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Lily Cada                 -Actress, High class, Berk's wife. \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                            wears diamonds. late 20s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Berk Cada                 -Businessman, classy. Englishero.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql                            early 30s\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc \ul Scene\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc Funeral at Miko's Home\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc \ul Time\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc The present\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql  (cont'd)\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \ul Scene 1 : THE DEATH OF REALITY\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \ul SETTING :\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc All is dark. All characters are just silhouettes. There\u8217?s a table and a wireless phone. There\u8217?s a dressing mirror across the table.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \ul AT RISE :\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc **** is on the phone, crying. Michael is facing the dressing mirror, wearing shirt and pants only.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\qc \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql BEA\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql (Bea is in tears, talking on the phone.)\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Hindi eh. Hindi ko na kaya. He's hurting me. I really can't take any more of it. I have to do this.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql //BLACKOUT\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql RADIO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Famous detective was killed last night the cause of which is still under investigation. ~abrupt cut\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Who is this famous detective? ~abrupt cut\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql ~cut in~ Funeral held in his home. \par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql We have an investigative reporter on the hunt to find out, "Who killed Miko?"\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql // LIGHT FADE IN\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Sino ka ba talaga, Miko? Tell me, sino pumatay sayo?\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql // BLACKOUT\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 2 : THE DEATH OF OBSCURITY\par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SETTING :\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc Funeral at Miko's home. \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc \ul AT RISE : \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\qc Faye on the podium delivering intro eulogy.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Good Afternoon/Evening. My name is Faye, I'm Miko's younger sister. I would like to thank all of you for attending my brother's wake. <MORE> You'll live in our memories.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Beautiful speech, Ms. Dela Cruz. I'm Angelo from GN News. (Kisses Faye's hand.) I'm really sorry for your loss.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Michael comes over\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Oy, back away! Who are you? Sino nagpapasok sayo dito? Private funeral to, bawal media dito.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Di ako media. Investigative journalist lang. Kita mo yon? (Points at exit) Imbestigahan mo yung daan patungo sa exit. Alis!\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Okay lang, Michael. Hayaan mo na.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ano ba pakay mo? Sino ka ba?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Angelo Dela Cruz. Investigative Journalist ng GNN.  \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Are we related? Or coincidence lang?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Coincidence lang ata. Andami kayang Dela Cruz sa Pilipinas.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Taga-san ka ba baka magka-angkan tayo?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql I forgot. My parents used to talk about our ancestry. Noong bata pa kasi ako nun.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *Laughs* Parents din namin ni kuya eh. Pero I remember some of the stories.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Bakit ka ba nandito? Invited guests lang kasi dapat nandito.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Miko always fascinated me. He was known as a great detective, pero his personal life is unknown to everybody.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *laughs* Parang ikaw lang, unknown to everybody. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Bakit ikaw ba? Sino ka ba? Michael??? \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Don't. Just call me bro, dude, pre, pards, tol, repapips, kahit ano wag lang pangalan ko. I hate my name, lalo na apilido ko. Goodluck finding that out. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql He's a detective, apprentice ni kuya. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Oh! I've heard of you. You're the Michael that failed the Zalameda case. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql STFU. I didn't fail that case. My partner botched up the case. My history's clean. Asa ka naman. Failed case amf.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Chill, man. Init ulo ah. Anyway. I want to do a feature report on Miko if it's okay with you?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Sure. Basta walang makakalabas dito.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Yes, ma'am.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Michael, samahan mo si Angelo, baka makatulong sya sayo.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql He's just a writer. Ano matutulong nyan sakin?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql He might provide a different insight. You heard the expression, 'two heads are better than one?"\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Sure. Pero just to be clear, I am two heads to the 13th power. *laughs* I'm like awesome times awesome ng labintatlong beses. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Kdot.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *laughs* Let me guess, iniimbestigahan mo pagkamatay ni Miko?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Oo.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql You can help him out. If you find something, tell me immediately.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Shore.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Where should we start?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql FAYE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql That guy's Karl, bestfriend ni kuya. Darlene, ex nya. The rest are just old friends that I invited para di mahalatang iniimbestigahan sila. *points to suspects*\

May mga parating pa, pero I suggest you start with them. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Okay, got it.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql Faye leaves to distribute food and knicknacks.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO (cont'd)\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql So... detective, what's the sitch?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql These suspects, *points with his head* are connected to Miko's case. The rest, invited guests. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Bakit dito mo napili mag-imbestiga? Bakit hindi sila-sila nalang, dalin mo sa prisinto tas dun mo tanungin?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Di ako. Si Faye umisip nyan. The funeral's the only way to get them all together in one place. Mas-madali din to kasi imposibleng magsinungaling yung suspect kung nandyan yung iba para kontrahin sila. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ahh... smart move. Kaso, anong klaseng killer yun? Para pumunta sa lamay ng pinatay nya? \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ano pa ba? Edi may sapak sa ulo? Hintayin mo lang, pag may nakita kang kinakausap ang sarili nila, baka yun yung killer. *laughs*\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *laughs* The biggest mistake a criminal would make is bumalik sa scene of the crime.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql But it's ideal to go where the witnesses are gathered if I wanted to clean up loose ends. Speaking of, bakit ka nga ba nandito ulit? Lahat kasi ng nandito, witnesses. The rest are invited guests. We invited them para hindi mag-panic yung mga potential suspects.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql I told you earlier. I want to find out who Miko really is? \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Paulit-ulit ka eh. Rephrasing, What's in it for you?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql A chance to start over? I'm not that different from you. I've reached the height of my career then... I hit a road bump. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Lumagpak ka? \

\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Road bump.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Epol, Apol. You can say them differently but they're the same thing. Loser.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *laughs* Hate to admit it but I'm getting used to your rudeness. And what do you call your failure?\

\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql It was a set up. An elaborate plan set to fuck me up. And I'm here to make the person responsible pay.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql And who is this person who effed you up?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Correction, people who fucked me up. So here's the deal. Have you heard of the Zalameda case?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql The missing diamonds? Remotely.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Yep. So this is the case that Miko and Karl Simon were working on. The case that lead to his death. I always admired Karl's work. He's that badass detective that stops at nothing to achieve his goal. Anyway, so the case lead to a dead end. That's why they closed the case and Miko was killed a week after, presumably related to the case.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql How did he die?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *Gets mad and punches stuff* (Raised voice) SHUT! UP! And let me talk! *sighs* (Normal voice) I can't tell you, cause of death can't be revealed until the case is solved. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql I'm already working on the case with you. Dali, telme! \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Slow and brutal death. That's why the coffin is covered.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql So, you reopened the case?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Yes. I reopened the investigation and guess what? Everything was redtaped! They wouldn't let me look at evidence nor reports and the worse part is I got laid off from the force. Someone influential didn't want the case reopened. I lost my freaking job! Those sons of bitches cost me my job! I was this close to a promotion! AHHH! MOTHERF*! TANG!\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql So how did you get the case reopened then?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql I joined a Private Investigation Agency. Then I got Faye to request a re-investigation. They can't refuse private investigations and they sure af can't touch me now that I'm out of the system. Moving on, simulan natin yung babaeng umiiyak. Mukang guilty eh. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Guilty na kagad? Di ba pwedeng nagluluksa?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Nagluluksa. Ha! Nakita kita umiiyak kanina boy! *laughs* Sabi mo di mo kaano-ano si Miko. Wag mo sabihing nagluluksa ka din.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ahh, yun. Di luha yun. Nasilaw ako sa ilaw *points at light* Bakit kasi kailangan maliwanag sa lamay eh?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Nasilaw. Sige, sabi mo eh. \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql M&A approcah DARLENE.\par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 3 : THE DEATH OF LOVE\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Hi, are you okay?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\

\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *sobs* 'are you okay?' sa lahat ng matatanong mo sakin, 'are you okay?' napili mo? Bakit di nalang sya tanungin mo *points at coffin* "Are you okay amputa" *sobs*\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Nice question, captain obvious. Dali, tanong mo kung nasilaw lang din sya.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ano pinagsasasabi nyo?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Ayun oh! *points at light*\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql *looks at light and regrets it immediately*\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Nasilaw ka no?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Aba punyeta! Hindi! I'm obviously crying. What do you want from me? Nagluluksa ako! Lubayan nyo ko, please!\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql I'm Michael. Detective. This is Angelo.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Investigative Journalist. \par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql We're investigating Miko's death. Do you mind if we ask you some questions?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Bakit? Suspect ako?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Technically, yes. You were involved in the case that lead to his death, right?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Oo. Ako yung biktima nung iniimbestigahan nyang kaso. Imposible namang masama ko sa suspect list.\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql MICHAEL\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql We're just here to ask questions. We're not saying you killed him. We just want to know the whole story. Unless, you want to admit that you killed him?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql ANGELO\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li694\ri694\ql Shut up. *punches Michael* Let me ask the questions. How are you related to Miko?\par
\pard\plain \s3\f0\caps\fs24\sb240\fi0\ql DARLENE\par
\pard\plain \s5\f0\fs24\sb120\fi0\li388\ql We were lovers. I met him in college. He was a really good football player. I met him in this football game. He's like a beast when in the field. His peers couldn't catch up to him. His opponents played dirty but he's such a kind soul. He believed in playing by the rules. He was a principled man. He's the kind of man who'd die for his beliefs.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 4 : THE DEATH OF FRIENDSHIP\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL and Angelo approach Karl. Angelo pulls a chair right next to Karl and sits on it cowboy style. MICHAEL is standing.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL Karl, am I right? Don\u8217?t tell me you\u8217?re Miko\u8217?s lover too.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL Hahaha. No bruh. I\u8217?m his best man.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql ANGELO I\u8217?m Angelo, this is MICHAEL. We\u8217?re\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL detectives. I know. Miko had told me about you two. So, are you investigating his death?\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL Yes, and are you planning to lose weight?\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL I\u8217?m diabetic, you asshole. It runs in the family.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL No one runs in your family, you fat f*.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql ANGELO Sorry, Karl. I apologize for my partner\u8217?s indecency. Sorry, sorry, sorry. (bows 3 times) You\u8217?re being too mean, MICHAEL.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL (Darlene gets on the podium still crying) And you\u8217?re being too soft. Look, lady talks-a-lot is preparing to talk a lot more and we still have plenty of people to talk to.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql ANGELO Quit yapping and get to it then.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL That\u8217?s more like it. So, Karl, when was the last time you\u8217?ve seen Miko?\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL Last time I saw him was nine months ago. Faye... she thinks so highly of him. Sure, Miko\u8217?s a good man. WAS a good man. He hasn\u8217?t always been the saint that everyone knew him for.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL What do you mean? KARL Miko was an honest man. We always tell each other about what happens in our lives. Then he changed. Something happened to him after he and Darlene stopped dating. He started keeping secrets from me.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL What secrets? By the way this is progressing it sounds like he\u8217?s cheating on you man so quit beating around the bush and tell it to me straight.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL Have you heard the story of Joseph the dreamer? His brothers threw him in a pit. He was kept there for days, until he was sold into slavery. That\u8217?s what happened. I found one of his dirty little secrets.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL What secret? That he cheated on you with another man?\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL Shutup! I\u8217?d never betray his secrets! Not even in his death.\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql I confronted him and he wouldn\u8217?t admit it. He used me and sabotaged my work by putting redtape investigations on me. I lost credibility in my industry, man. He sold me out. How am I supposed to make a living now?\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql MICHAEL What secret are you talking about, Karl? You\u8217?re hiding something. Did you kill him? Stop talking so cryptic!\par
\pard\plain \s0\f0\fs24\sb0\fi0\ql KARL I thought friendship was the most important thing that human beings valued. If you\u8217?re asking about who killed whom, Miko killed our friendship. And for what? For a girl. Bros before hoes, we used to say. I thought witnessing his death would bring me satisfaction. I was wrong.\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 5 : THE DEATH OF INNOCENCE\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 6 : THE DEATH OF FORTUNE\par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 7 : THE DEATH OF \par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 8 : THE DEATH OF MARRIAGE\par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 9 : THE DEATH OF AMBIGUITY\par
\pard\plain \s1\f0\caps\fs24\sb480\ul\fi0\qc \ul SCENE 10 : THE DEATH OF SUFFERING\par
\pard\plain \s2\f0\fs24\sb240\i\fi0\ql \par
}
